# eZ-Home-Automation-Android-App  

https://ezhome2016.wordpress.com/

An easy to set up Android app to control electronic devices connected to Iot chip PC (Like raspberry Pi) through home-WiFi.


This app essentially acts as a Client and sends control messages to the server(iot device like Raspberry Pi) via WiFi.

Get started:

Assuming that the Raspberry Pi is running on a raspbian OS with java sdk preinstalled.

0) Download or Clone the project into a directory on your desktop.

1) The Server (java - Socket Server) on the Raspberry Pi. - To recieve commands from App.
    
     Install Pi4j Module:
      - The server uses Pi4j java wrapper to control the GPIO ports on the Raspberry Pi
      - Easy install Pi4j using the command :  curl -s get.pi4j.com | sudo bash
      - More details on : http://pi4j.com/install.html.

     Note:
    To recieve messages from this app, your server should be configured with static ip:
     ip address : 192.168.0.13
      Listening port : 6000    
      
      or
      
     You can manually edit these values according to the autogenerated ip-address value on the Pi. 

    Compile and Run the java Server code:
    
    - Copy the Server1.java code to the directory in Pi. (I used FileZilla)
    - cd into the directory and run the following commands:
          pi4j --compile Server1.java
          pi4j --run Server1
    - This will start the server at port 6000, server starts to listen for messages/requests at this port.



1) The App - (Socket Client)  - To Send Commands
   - Enable Debug mode in Android Device.
   - Connect Android phone to the Android Studio.
   - Download and run the build.gradle file
   - Build and run the project.
   - On success, the app will be installed in the Android device, up and running. 
 
  Note - The app assumes the server to be running at  ip address : 192.168.0.13 and port : 6000.
  
  
  Now we are all set to exchange messages.!!!!
  
  - Button press on the app should display the corresponding On/ Off messages on the Pi Console.
  - The gpio pin numbering used here is according to the pi4j mappings given in this link.(I use Raspberry Pi B+)
       http://pi4j.com/pins/model-b-plus.html
          
   
   Coming up next:
   
   - Connecting gpio to control a relay
   - Timer functionality
   - custom ip address
       
  
  
  
  

      
      
      
      
